# README

This ReadMe File tells how to install Devise and use it on Rails for authentication.
Reference:
<https://hackernoon.com/using-devise-in-your-ruby-on-rails-application-a-step-by-step-guide-m92i3y5s>

Here are the steps:

* Add devise to your Gemfile:

gem 'devise'

* Run Bundle Install

bundle install

* Install devise

rails generate devise:install

You can see some instruction after running the command above.

* The first instruction

The first instruction is referring to the mailer settings. For a dev
environment, you need to specify the default URL. This won't give you
any trouble if you are not going to send mail to your users, but let's
copy and paste the line on the config/environments/development.rb:

config.action_mailer.default_url_options = { host: 'localhost', port: 3000 }

* The Second Instruction

this instructs us to define a root_url to something. Leave it for later

* The Third Instruction

This instructs us to ensure we have flash messages on our app/views/layouts/application.html.erb .
This will let the user know what they did wrong. Default messages are already
included on the devise gem so you don't have to write them. Just copy paste
and show it wherever you want.

 <p class="notice"><%= notice %></p>
 <p class="alert"><%= alert %></p>

* The Fourth Instruction

Here it's telling us to generate the views of the devise for customization.
We will run the command now and modify later:

rails generate devise:views

Great, now it's time to generate the model. Here I will name it "User"

rails generate devise User

Before do the migration, let's check the migrate file first. Here you can
uncomment the line that you want in the database. For example if you enable
the confirmable part, it will make user confirm the email first before
account activation.

Okay here is how to add new field for the devise. For example we will add
first and last name for the user. We will use the same model devise created
to add any fields you wish but we will modify it later.
Run this migrate command to do that:

rails generate migration add_name_to_users name:string surname:string

Let's check again the migration file before migrate it. If everything seems good,
run either of this command to migrate it:

rails db:migrate

or

rake db:migrate

* Run your server:

rails server

After that we will check on the sign-up form. Here we can visit
the sign-up form generated by devise:

<http://localhost:3000/users/sign_up>

* Add First and Last Name to the form

Since we add two new columns which are first and last name, we need
to add that to the registration form. This form is generated by
the devise:views command. Let's edit the form in views/devise/registrations/new.html.erb
and also the edit erb file

* Check the Sign-up Data
To check the sign-up data from db, you can use the rails console. Now use the ORM
command all to get all the User data.

User.all

But here the name and surname are not updated. Now add permit to add more columns
on the application controller

Congratulations now you can create your own account with devise
